Harsh Lands is a Turn-Based Territory Control / Management / Auto-Battler hybrid game for one player. The player takes on the roll of Taaro Vess, Commander of the Altarian Expeditionary Forces, appointed by the King of Altair to take control of Glaerfyllen to claim as Altairian land. There are two other Factions also claiming their stake: The Kingdom of Sei Rae, led by Al-Khariq Aq Ullr, Imram of the Sei Raqqyan Caliphade, and Vessenia, led by Alric Vy, Chieftain of the Vezeriin. Whoever is able to capture the regions as well as drive the opposing Factions out of the land will be able to call Glaerfyllen as their Hold.
Basics:
The game map is a tile-based 20x20 board made up of 14 Regions, each comprised of a set amount of tiles. Each Faction has a starting region. Altair’s is Arc Mannis. Hex Tiles are only for movement purposes and Structure-Auto Place. There are no Terrain Requirements for Structures.
Each of the Army Pawns move from adjacent Region by Region, NOT Tile by Tile. The Pawn is coded to move towards the closest center of each Region. An Army Pawn can only move once per turn.
Regions are Level Locked by the Empire Level. This is a level that is increased by certain Structures that are built that explicitly state they generate +Empire per turn. If a Faction’s Empire level does not meet or exceed and adjacent Region level, they cannot move there. It is accepted that for the first few turns, the player cannot move their pawn to any adjacent Region, instead focusing on construction and management to increase their Empire Level until they are able to expand.
Expansion is done by moving to an available un-owned and un-occupied Region and Pressing O to build an Outpost if they have the required resources. This Outpost then flips control of the Region to the Faction that built the Outpost. Once that Region is owned, then any construction and management can be done to that Region.
Combat is done in 10 second Auto-Bursts. Once a Combat Action is made, the Army that made the Action is locked out until the next turn. Combat is explained in greater detail further down this document.
Structures are built on owned Regions and give resource generations and bonuses. They all have costs associated with them. They are explained further down this document.
Resources are generated per turn and come from the various Structures built in a Region. Resources are put into a Global Pool for the Faction, not tied to specific Regions.



Resources:
There are numerous different Resources that are generated by Turn from Structures. All Resources go into the Faction’s Global Pool. The Resources are as follows:
•	Food: Generated by Farms, used for Structure construction and Unit recruitment 
•	Wood: Generated by Lumbermills, used for Structure construction and Unit recruitment
•	Ore: Generated by Mines, used for Structure construction and Unit recruitment
•	Water: Generated by Watermills, used for Structure construction and Unit recruitment
•	Gold: Generated by Trading Posts, used for Structure construction, Administration Salaries, and Unit recruitment
•	Tactics: Generated by War Colleges, used for Unit recruitment
•	Logistics: Generated by Stockyards, used for Region Levelling
•	Diplomacy: Generated by Council Chambers, used for Administration Crafting
•	Empire: Generated by various specified Structures, used for moving and capturing Regions
Food, Wood, Ore, Water, and Gold are used to build Structures, recruit Units, and pay Salaries (explained later). Tactics, Logistics, and Diplomacy are used to raise the Region Level to prevent Capture. Empire is used to allow for more movement to higher level Regions.
Structures:
Structures are the backbone of the conquest of Glaerfyllen. They are used to generate the various Resources that the Factions will used to expand their Empire and claim their stake for their respective Countries. All Structures have an associated cost for building them. The Structures are as follows, broken down by their Type:
	Economy:
•	Farms: Generates +Food per Turn
•	Lumbermills: Generates +Wood per Turn
•	Mines: Generates +Ore per Turn
•	Watermills: Generates +Water per Turn

Expansion:

•	Trading Post: Generates +Gold and +Empire per Turn, enables the Regional Market
•	Observatory: Generates +Empire per Turn, enables Research for the Region
•	Grand Bazaar: Generates +Food, +Wood, +Ore, +Water, +Gold, and +Empire per Turn
•	Forum: Generates +Empire per Turn, enables Administration for the Region
•	Barracks: Allows the recruitment of Infantry Units, limit ONE per Region
•	Range: Allows the recruitment of Ranged Units, limit ONE per Region
•	Stable: Allows the recruitment of Cavalry Units, limit ONE per Region
•	Foundry: Allows the recruitment of Siege Units, limit ONE per Region
•	War College: Generates +Tactics per Turn, limit ONE per Region
•	Stockyards: Generates +Logistics per Turn, limit ONE per Region
•	Council Chambers: Generates +Diplomacy per Turn, limit ONE per Region

Region-Specific Unlocks:
There are a few things that are unlocked on certain Structures being built that are Region-Specific. These are as follows:
•	Market: Unlocked on Trading Post construction
•	Research: Unlocked on Observatory construction
•	Military: Unlocked on Barracks, Range, Stable, or Foundry construction
•	Administration: Unlocked on Forum construction

Market:
The Market is an open trading establishment that allows the buying and selling of Food, Wood, Ore, and Water. Buying / Selling are in 50-count units; if you opt to buy Ore, you will buy 50 Ore, and if you opt to sell Ore, you will sell 50 Ore. Buying a resource adds it into the Global Pool, and selling removes it from the Global Pool. The prices for each Resource vary by Region. The price of Resources fluctuate per Turn. A graph that shows the last six price-points is displayed for each Resource, and all Resources will have different prices. The Player can theoretically stack a Region with Trading Posts to generate large amounts of +Gold per turn, and instead of building Economy Structures, play the Market to acquire Resources.


Research:
Research is used to increase the Resource generation for specific Structures. It costs Gold to conduct Research, and both the cost and generation increases with each Research conducted. If a Research is done on a specific Structure Type, it is done on ALL Structures of the same Type in the Region. 



Military:
Military is used to recruit Units to build Armies. Once a Barracks, Range, Stable, or Foundry is constructed, no other Structures that allow Unit recruitment are able to be built, and the Units associated with the Structure will be able to be recruited through the Military Tab on the Region Management UI.

Administration:
Administration Cards are unique Cards that are slotted on to the Region. These give various bonuses to that Region. They are unlocked at certain Region Levels and eventually can have up to three per Region. They require Salaries to be paid per Turn, which is in Gold, that does stack per Administration assigned. So, if a player has two Admins assigned that are 750 and 250, they lose 1000 Gold per Turn. If a salary cannot be paid, the Administration will unequip itself but will be able to be used again as long as the requirements are met. Administrations are unlocked through the spending of Tactics, Logistics, and Diplomacy. Inside the Administration Tab is the Region Level option. This uses the same Tactics, Logistics, and Diplomacy to increase the Region Level, to fortify it from any Capture attempts by the enemy Factions.

Army Pawns:
Army Pawns are used to move around the board by Region if level allows. They are used to Capture Regions to increase the expansion of the Empire and further the Campaign End, and also to wage Battle with other Factions. They can also be used in a defensive stance, by simply leaving a Pawn on a Region the Player wishes to hold continuously. Army Pawns have one Action per turn, either move once or attack once. They are comprised of a Unit Stack, and a Player can have multiple Armies, but there is a limit of ONE Friendly Army per Region. Armies are also able to be merged. This is done by selecting an Army and moving it into a region with another Friendly Army. This will then combine the Army’s Unit Stacks on to the Army that was being moved to. Example: Player has an Army of 250, and on an adjacent Region has an Army of 600, they select the Army of 250 and move that Army into the Region of the 600 Army. That 600 Army now becomes one Army of 850. An Army’s Health is made up of its Unit Stack. Each Unit placed into an Army is worth 50hp. So, if three Units are recruited, that will add 150hp to an existing Army if merged, or another Army of 150hp. There are currently no caps on Army sizes.

Units:
Units are used to make up Armies. They are recruited by constructing the Structures required for their Unit Class (Barracks for Infantry, Range for Ranged, Stable for Cavalry, Foundry for Siege). There are numerous Unit Types in each Unit Class. The Infantry Class will have Swordsmen, Axemen, Halberdiers, Pikemen, etc. Ranged Class will have Crossbowmen, Longbowmen, Shortbowmen, Slingshotters, etc., so on and so forth. All Units have 50hp, which is used to make up an Armies overall Health Pool. Each Unit Type has a resource Cost associated with its recruitment, and recruiting a Unit is one of that Unit. Units have specific stats associated with them, explained below:
•	Health: What this Unit adds to the Army Health Pool. Is hard-set to 50.
•	Armor: The amount of incoming Damage that will be mitigated.
•	Damage Minimum: The Minimum Damage that will be inflicted on an enemy Army.
•	Damage Maximum: The Maximum Damage that will be inflicted on an enemy Army.
•	Minimum Time: The Minimum Time that this Unit will inflict Damage.
•	Maximum Time: The Maximum Time that this Unit will inflict Damage.
•	Cost: The required Tactics, Food, Wood, Ore, Water, and Gold needed to recruit Unit.
Damage by Units is inflicted based on Damage Variance and Time Variance. Each Unit Type has different variances. These are calculated during the 10-second Combat Action. UNIT DAMAGE DOES NOT STACK. The ONLY stackable value is the Health. If you have 10 Units with a Damage Variance of 17-21, you have a Health value of 500, and will inflict 17-21 Damage per Time Variance, NOT 170-210.


Combat:
Combat is done in 10-Second “bursts”, and each Army engaged in a Combat Burst will run their Combat logic. It will be easier to explain in a scenario:
Player has an Army of 500 and moves to attack an enemy Army of 500 Each Armies Unit Stack is comprised of 8 Swordsmen and 2 Crossbowmen (8*50 + 2*50 = 500). That is its Health Pool. As described above, the Swordsman Damage is 17-21 per every 1.5-2.1 seconds, and the Crossbowmen’s is 25-28 every 2.5-3.1 seconds. So, when Combat is initiated, a Damage Value is inflicted on the opposing Army at each Time Variance over the course of 10 seconds. Once the 10 seconds is complete. The attacking Army gets locked out until the next Turn, leaving them open for a second attack if the attacked Army chooses to. What this would look like is: Two Armies of 500 engage, 10 seconds passes showing Health Pool decrease in real-time, and then after Combat, one Army has 383 and the other Army has 316. This opens up possibilities of really synergizes Armies with maybe high Damage and Time values, to do potentially less attacks but inflict greater Damage, or have low Damage Units with smaller Time Variances, creating consistent chip Damage during Combat. Potential Units to be created could have ones like Gilded Heavy Bowmen, with a Damage of 92-108, but a Time Variance of 3.5-6.2 seconds. Or, a Frontier Raider, with Damage at 11-16, and a Time Variance of 0.3-0.8s. Combine 10 each of those in an Army and have an Army of 1000 Health with small consistent damage interspersed with large damage hits, because it is possible that at 3.8 seconds, both Frontier Raider could hit for 16 and Gilded Heavy Bowmen could hit for 108, causing a 124 Damage burst. The next section will go over Siege Units, which are going to look a little different, and Capturing Regions.
Siege Units / Capturing Regions:
Siege Units all follow the same rules as the other Unit Types but are to be really used for the Capture System. Capturing a Region owned by an enemy Faction must be done by: Attempting to move an Army into an enemy Region that is unoccupied, in which a Panel will appear offering to attempt Capture. If an enemy Army is occupying that Region, that Army must be destroyed before Capture is attempted. Capture is done by taking the Region Level and transferring that into a Health and Damage value. So, a Region of 111 will have 111 Health, and also 111 Damage. All Outposts Time Variance is TWO SECONDS. This means that every two seconds, the capturing Army will receive 111 Damage. The Army will do their normal Damage value to the outpost. AFTER THE 10 SECOND COMBAT ACTION, the Region will be captured, as long as the Army Capturing survives the 10 second engagement. Capturing flips Region Ownership to the Capturing Faction. ALL STRUCTURES IMMEDIATELY FLIP OWNERSHIP. ALL RESEARCH, ADMINISTRATIONS ETC. STAY IN PLACE AND SIMPLY TRANSFER TO NEW OWNER.  This is unique in that, since the Regions Level gates it from enemy attacking if the enemies Empire Level isn’t high enough to enter, a Capturing Army is directly “lowering” the Region Level, opening it up for counterattacks. So, if an Army moves to Capture a 111 Level Region, and they survive the 10 second encounter and are able to inflict damage that brings the Region Level down to 6, THAT REGION IS NOW LEVEL 6, AND MUST BE BUILT BACK UP THROUGH TACTICS, LOGISTICS, AND DIPLOMACY TO PREVENT ANY POTENTIAL RE-CAPTURE.  This is where Siege Units come in. Siege Units are specifically set for low Damage and high Time Variance, designed to be their own Armies solely for Region Capture. You would want a stacked Army of Siege Units for a bigger Health Pool to survive the Capture Burst, and low Damage with less hits to make sure the Region Level does not tank too low to where it becomes a large expenditure to build back up before enemy Armies can move in to attack and attempt to take Ownership.

